So let's go through all of the things
that we're gonna be covering today and
get a sense for what this is.
First of all,
there is a course website and
the course website is
getting started with all one
word getting started with
dot CSS dot education.
And if you go there,
you will find this website where
it says getting started with CSS.
And you'll notice down here as we scroll
down a little bit, there's a listing of
the seven chapters, the things that we're
going to look at today, a little bit about
our course objectives, and a little bit
of background about the workshop itself.
Before I go into all of that, let me show
you the finished portfolio site that we're
going to build today, it looks shockingly
like the website that I just showed you
and you'll see here,
we have a navigation bar.
You have your name on its portfolio site,
we have a little bit of
introductory text up here on the.
Then we have a series of projects that
perhaps you've encountered along the way.
By the way you'll have an opportunity to
customize the site with your own content
so as we scroll on through here that's
what that looks like we have a little bit
of information about contact me.
And then we have some links
down here on the bottom,
this website is currently all
about me because I'm Jen Kramer.
I would hope that you want to change all
this information to be all about you so
to have your name,
your interests and your projects and
I'm going to give you an opportunity
to do that along the way.
We'll also have an about page and so
here you'll have an about page that
looks kind of like the projects.
And by the way it's all responsive of
course so if I narrow up my screen here
you'll see that we have a navigation
bar that's going to reformat itself.
And underneath that we have
some projects that will reform
themselves as well, okay, so
that is what we're going for
today and if I was a beginning
beginner looking at that.
I would probably feel pretty intimidated
at this moment in time because that seems
like a pretty advanced site for
someone without a lot of background
knowledge and HTML and CSS.
The trick behind this type of project is
always to think about how are we going
to break this into pieces.
Start with one of the simplest
pieces of this puzzle,
work that particular problem and
in fact we're gonna work it in isolation.
So we don't have to worry about all of
the other considerations that are there
on the page.
In fact, we'll do that using code pen,
I love code pen as a tool for teaching,
because there's no
environment to configure.
It's just gonna give us some HTML and CSS
blocks, also gives us a JavaScript block,
but we're not gonna use that one.
And we can write our code, and
immediately see it rendered on this side.
So we'll do that,
we'll break this into pieces,
we'll look at just the text here for
the opening introductory text.
We'll look at the navbar in isolation,
we'll work at these projects,
probably getting to that this afternoon.
And thinking about how
we're gonna make this work,
including this interesting overlap
thing that we have going on here.
And you'll do some things yourself along
the way you'll wind up coding some
of these things all on your
own without my assistance.